# Kitchen Remodel (KR02-KR03)

Day two and three showed some more progress in the demolition. All the
cabinets are gone, the wall is completely open and half the floor is
torn up. Some mold was found behind the wall where the sink was before
the previous owners put on the extension.

We saw the mold on the sheet rock, but it was present on the wood when
Jeremy removed the moldy section. He sprayed it with some WD40, which he
said contains a chemical that prevents the mold spores from spreading
and eventually kills it.

There is also an inhibitor that he is going to purchase and apply before
putting the sheet rock back up.

We checked the bathroom to see if there was a leak somewhere, fueling
the mold. When we purchased the house, the bathroom looked like it was
recently remodeled and Jeremy did not see any areas where water would be
leaking.

Our best summation, is that before we bought the house, there was tile
in the bathroom and it was badly cracked, causing leaks down the kitchen
wall. As we cannot find any source of current water, the mold treatment
should be all we need.

Next week is going to be a big week. The cabinets are being delivered on
Wednesday and the appliances are being delivered on Friday. Jeremy is
going to be here early Monday to complete the demo and start laying down
the sub-floor and tile. The tiling will likely take a few days,
especially as the grout will need to dry.

Everything seems on schedule so far and we should be ready for the
counter template early the following week. After that, it should just be
the remaining electrical work, moving the chandler in the dining room
(and putting in the high hats there) and painting.

