# Work the System

## Introduction

Work the System, by Sam Carpenter, is an excellent study on how he
turned his company around, from the brink of death, to a successful,
thriving enterprise. Late one night, while struggling to make payroll,
he had an epiphany. He realized that every process within his
organization was a system into itself. He could break each one of these
systems down into a specific sequence of steps and make enhancements to
those processes as needed.

With this insight, and making payroll one last time, he spent the next
weeks with his management team breaking down their most repetitive and
dysfunctional processes and documenting them, step by step, in what he
calls “Working Procedures” or SOPs (standard operating procedures).

This process or reviewing processes, documenting and making them more
efficient, doesn’t have an end date. It is an ongoing process that never
ends, as there are always new efficiencies (maybe because of new
technology) we can implement. In Sam’s experience, they were starting
from scratch and had to document every process, a process within itself
that took years to accomplish.

However, by looking at each process within the business as an
independent system, and documenting the protocol that runs the system,
step by step, Sam not only transformed his company but also reduced his
working hours from 80+ to a handful of hours per week.

## The Significance of Documentation

There were two key parts to his successful turnaround story; the change
in mindset to see processes as independent systems and implementing
standardized documentation for everyone to follow. The latter is a topic
that does not get as much attention as it deserves.

I get it. Documenting business processes is just about the most boring
thing you can do with your time. It is something I put off more than I
should. However, the true story around Sam’s company transformation is
within these detailed documents he and his team created.

By having detailed scripts of exactly how to handle each situation and
getting his staff to follow these steps meticulously, the error rates
and complaints dropped dramatically. There are a couple points I’d like
to emphasize, though. First, what is unique about the way Sam
implemented these protocols is that, while he requires his staff to
follow the script step-by-step, he also allows them to bring changes to
the script to their supervisors’ attention in real-time. And if there
are no immediate objections to the change, they implement it
immediately, without an endless series of meetings debating the merits
of the change. The documentation is updated, and the staff follows the
documentation.

Second, we can apply this documentation to any process. Having detailed
procedures written for repeatable tasks ensures the result are
consistent. However, even for tasks that are not repeatable, having the
structure of the process documented ensures consistency and that we
don’t overlook certain steps of the process.

For example, Sam owns a call center where he can document and script the
phone calls based on what the client is calling for. We can document an
assembly line procedure to the smallest detail, as there shouldn’t be
any divergence from the script.

However, with other jobs, such as project management, the details change
from project to project. There is no script to follow from start to
finish. But if we take a step back, we can document the process at a
higher level. A repeatable level. For example, the required documents
and approval process for a project. The template for the requirements
and project charter. The schedule for project updates to stakeholders.

Taking a step back and looking at each process with a systems mindset
helps to break the process into repeatable tasks, which can then be
documented and repeated.

## Conclusion

Sam’s story is interesting and the way he committed to documenting the
various company processes and having his staff follow the protocols step
by step produced amazing results. His story would have made a great
white paper. As for a book, though, it ends up being 200 pages of the
same stories repeated over and over.

For anyone brand new to systems thinking, the book provides an excellent
introduction to this way of thinking. As you read it though, skip the
parts that seem redundant. There is nothing new buried in those
paragraphs. Although, as a counterargument, you can make the case that
this repletion is by design. By repeating himself, he is ingraining
those thoughts into the reader’s mind.
